# Preamble

## Constellation White Paper Version 0.0.1 **draft**

Versioning follows the popular [semver](https://semver.org) format with some 
adjustments to make versioning of the paper parallel to, but not aligned with 
the creation of the associated software. The versioning schema follows:

There are three numbers in a version RELEASE.REVISION.DRAFT defined here.

**DRAFT** DRAFT versions of the document are incremented as language and 
library features are discussed, researched, and written about. A DRAFT version 
of the document contains changes to the document which may have yet to be 
implemented in an upcoming REVISION or RELEASE of Constellation. In short, any
version of this document with a non-zero draft number is intended for active
contributors to the project, and should not be used as documentation, a manual,
or a reference to the project.

**REVISION** REVISION versions of this document are released with revisions of 
the language and libraries described by the document. Within a RELEASE changes 
to the REVISION number indicate things like grammatical fixes, clarifications, 
corrections to errata in code examples, etc. An incremented REVISION number may
indicate that documentation has been added or corrected, but does not indicate 
a major change in Constellation's syntax or library API.

**REALEASE** RELEASE numbers are tied directly to the major release of the 
Constellation project. We increment RELEASE numbers whenever a new version of 
the software is released with breaking changes to the syntax or library API of 
Constellation, causing older versions of the document to become deprecated.

*NOTE* The REVISION and DRAFT numbers under RELEASE number 0 should not be 
expected to be stable. Major breaking changes may happen between REVISION 
and DRAFT numbers during this phase of initial research and development.

## License (MIT)

Copyright 2018 Block G LLC.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of 
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in 
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do
so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR 
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, 
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE 
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER 
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, 
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
